term_project.md, before:

# SWE 363 - 231 Web App Project

## Introduction

The purpose of the term project is to provide students with the opportunity to put into practice the knowledge and skills they've gained in the classroom by engaging in a real-world project.

This project will be conducted in groups comprising 5 students. Each group is tasked with choosing a Web Application project that piques their interest. It is imperative that you adhere to industry best practices throughout the development process to ensure the delivery of a high-quality product, one that can readily accommodate future feature enhancements or be adapted for use in related contexts.

## Phases

| Phase              | Milestone        | Points | Due    | Deliverables                           |
|--------------------|------------------|--------|--------|----------------------------------------|
| 1                  | Form a Team      | 1      | Week 2 | Join a group in BB + Fill Contract     |
| 2                  | Proposal         | 2      | Week 3 | Submit Slides (.ppt)                   |
| 3                  | Requirements     | 3      | Week 4 | Submit Slides (.ppt)                   |
| 4                  | UI Design        | 3      | Week 5 | Submit Figma link                      |
| 5                  | Front_End        | 7      | Week 8 | Push to Github + submit github repo    |
| 6                  | Back_End         | 7      | Week 11| Push to Github                         |
| 7                  | Deployment       | 1      | Week 12| Submit Domain link                     |
| 8                  | Demo             | 3      | Week 13| Submit Youtube link                    |
| 9                  | Final Report     | 3      | Week 14| Submit Slides (.ppt)                   |

## Project Phases Details

### 1. Team Formation
- Join a group in blackborad common section with all team members.
- Fill the team contract form after you create a group in BB (https://forms.office.com/r/2LbQWckmv8) 
- All Team members should be in the same section. 
- Each team should consist of 5 members. 
  
### 2. Proposal
- Think of an idea that contributes to solving a real problem AND can be built during the semester (be ambitious and realistic).
- Submit a PowerPoint presentation in blackboard that includes the following parts:
  - **Project Title**
  - **Team Members**
  - **Executive Summary**: A brief one-paragraph description of the work you are proposing. It must describe what you are planning to do, not how you are going to implement it.
  - **High-Level Description**: Include the following:
    - Users of the system
    - Functionalities for each user type
    - A storyboard sketch of a real scenario where a real person uses your system in a real context.

### 3. Requirements
- Submit a PDF file that includes the following:
  - **Identification of the project's main motivation.**
  - **Users of the web app**: Define user categories and develop descriptions for each category.
  - **Requirements Modeling**:
    - Elicit all functional requirements.
    - Elicit all non-functional requirements and constraints (internal and external).
  - **Wireframe**: Use one of the design tools (Pencil and paper accepted) to sketch the wireframe of your web app.
    - Your wireframes should be clearly sketched and covers all part of the system (imagine you will hand them to a UI designer)
  - **Note**: Your scope should cover the basic concepts covered in class, such as forms, responsiveness, use of APIs, a database, a back-end. Too simple ideas will be rejected.

### 4. User Interface Design
- Based on your initial wireframe from the previous step, design ALL the screens and use cases using Figma.
- The design should be as close to the end product as possible.
- The design should have both desktop and mobile view
- The design should cover all screens and all cases (errors, empty data, loading, etc.)
- In Figma, go to “Prototype” and link all the screens with each other.
- Submit the Figma prototype link to blackboard.

### 5. Front-End Implementation
- Based on your Figma design, implement the front-end part of your system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- You are free to use any CSS framework such as Bootstrap, Tailwind, etc.
- You are required to use React as the front-end framework.
- Create a GitHub repository for your project and submit the link to blackboard.
- Make sure to document your repository clearly.
- Create a github repository with all of the team members added.
- Submit your repositoty link to BB assignment.
- Push your code to GitHub before the deadline (Make sure to ignore libraries and sensitive information).
- Notes:
  - Make sure that you github repository is documented very well (including installation instrutions).
  - Make sure to ignore libraries and sensitive information.
  - The contribution of each team member will be graded from github's contribution to the repository (don't push from one account).


### 6. Back-End Implementation
- Based on your requirements, implement your functionality using NodeJS and Express.
- You have to use MongoDB as the Database. 
- Push your code to your same repository.
- Same notes for previous phase apply.

### 7. Deployment
- Use any deployment platform to publish your website (Make it real!!!!!).
- You are free to use any platform.
- Submit the link of your live website to BB.

### 8. Demo
- Before you start recording, plan your demo very well (imagine yourself in a conference in front of a large audience).
- Record a 5 to 7-minute long video showing the different parts of your project.
- The video should follow a narrative that highlights the core value of your system AND explain the technical part.
- Upload the video to YouTube and submit a link to blackboard.

### 9. Final Report
- Submit a report (.pdf) that contains the following:
  - **Technologies and Tools**: Specify clearly the technologies and tools used in the project (for instance: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJS, etc.).
  - **GUI Screen Shots**: Include screenshots of the main screens.
  - **Source Code**: Snapshot of the important parts of the source code (few pages) to describe the main scenario(s).
  - **Open source code reusability**: If you have integrated any existing code or used any framework, mention it here clearly.
  - **Learnings from the project**.
  - **Limitations of your work**.
  - **What would you do differently if you had more time**.
  - **Time-sheet**: A worksheet describing the implementation timeline and the tasks of each team member.

## Conclusion

Remember, challenges are opportunities, and your commitment to best practices in web design and development will not only define the success of your projects but also your personal and professional growth. So let's embark on this adventure together, pushing the boundaries of what's possible and turning our collective dreams into reality. Your journey begins now, and the possibilities are limitless!

Commit message:

add proposal faqs to term_project.md

term_project.md, after:

# SWE 363 - 231 Web App Project

## Introduction

The purpose of the term project is to provide students with the opportunity to put into practice the knowledge and skills they've gained in the classroom by engaging in a real-world project.

This project will be conducted in groups comprising 5 students. Each group is tasked with choosing a Web Application project that piques their interest. It is imperative that you adhere to industry best practices throughout the development process to ensure the delivery of a high-quality product, one that can readily accommodate future feature enhancements or be adapted for use in related contexts.

## Phases

| Phase              | Milestone        | Points | Due    | Deliverables                           |
|--------------------|------------------|--------|--------|----------------------------------------|
| 1                  | Form a Team      | 1      | Week 2 | Join a group in BB + Fill Contract     |
| 2                  | Proposal         | 2      | Week 3 | Submit Slides (.ppt)                   |
| 3                  | Requirements     | 3      | Week 4 | Submit Slides (.ppt)                   |
| 4                  | UI Design        | 3      | Week 5 | Submit Figma link                      |
| 5                  | Front_End        | 7      | Week 8 | Push to Github + submit github repo    |
| 6                  | Back_End         | 7      | Week 11| Push to Github                         |
| 7                  | Deployment       | 1      | Week 12| Submit Domain link                     |
| 8                  | Demo             | 3      | Week 13| Submit Youtube link                    |
| 9                  | Final Report     | 3      | Week 14| Submit Slides (.ppt)                   |

## Project Phases Details

### 1. Team Formation
- Join a group in blackborad common section with all team members.
- Fill the team contract form after you create a group in BB (https://forms.office.com/r/2LbQWckmv8) 
- All Team members should be in the same section. 
- Each team should consist of 5 members. 
  
### 2. Proposal
- Think of an idea that contributes to solving a real problem AND can be built during the semester (be ambitious and realistic).
- Submit a PowerPoint presentation in blackboard that includes the following parts:
  - **Project Title**
  - **Team Members**
  - **Executive Summary**: A brief one-paragraph description of the work you are proposing. It must describe what you are planning to do, not how you are going to implement it.
  - **High-Level Description**: Include the following:
    - Users of the system
    - Functionalities for each user type
    - A storyboard sketch of a real scenario where a real person uses your system in a real context.
   
#### FAQs

- **What is an acceptable scope for the project, in terms of ideas?**
Something useful that covers the basic web concepts and requires ~100 hours to complete (collectively by all members)

- **How many categories of users are required?** It needs to have at least two user categories.

- **What is the range of functionalities expected? Is there a specific number of features/functionalities required?** 
- At least 5 functionalities.

- **Can you provide an example of what the wireframes should look like?**

There is no one way to do wireframes, but if they google wireframes, they will find various approaches. In general, a good wireframe should:

1. Visually represent the structure of a page or screen without focusing on the final look.
2. Include the placement of key elements, such as headers, buttons, forms, images, and navigation menus.
3. Keep things simple by focusing on functionality and layout rather than design details like color or fonts.
4. Provide an idea of how the user interacts with the interface, showing the path they will follow.
5. Label all elements clearly so that both designers and developers understand what each element is.


### 3. Requirements
- Submit a PDF file that includes the following:
  - **Identification of the project's main motivation.**
  - **Users of the web app**: Define user categories and develop descriptions for each category.
  - **Requirements Modeling**:
    - Elicit all functional requirements.
    - Elicit all non-functional requirements and constraints (internal and external).
  - **Wireframe**: Use one of the design tools (Pencil and paper accepted) to sketch the wireframe of your web app.
    - Your wireframes should be clearly sketched and covers all part of the system (imagine you will hand them to a UI designer)
  - **Note**: Your scope should cover the basic concepts covered in class, such as forms, responsiveness, use of APIs, a database, a back-end. Too simple ideas will be rejected.

### 4. User Interface Design
- Based on your initial wireframe from the previous step, design ALL the screens and use cases using Figma.
- The design should be as close to the end product as possible.
- The design should have both desktop and mobile view
- The design should cover all screens and all cases (errors, empty data, loading, etc.)
- In Figma, go to “Prototype” and link all the screens with each other.
- Submit the Figma prototype link to blackboard.

### 5. Front-End Implementation
- Based on your Figma design, implement the front-end part of your system using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- You are free to use any CSS framework such as Bootstrap, Tailwind, etc.
- You are required to use React as the front-end framework.
- Create a GitHub repository for your project and submit the link to blackboard.
- Make sure to document your repository clearly.
- Create a github repository with all of the team members added.
- Submit your repositoty link to BB assignment.
- Push your code to GitHub before the deadline (Make sure to ignore libraries and sensitive information).
- Notes:
  - Make sure that you github repository is documented very well (including installation instrutions).
  - Make sure to ignore libraries and sensitive information.
  - The contribution of each team member will be graded from github's contribution to the repository (don't push from one account).


### 6. Back-End Implementation
- Based on your requirements, implement your functionality using NodeJS and Express.
- You have to use MongoDB as the Database. 
- Push your code to your same repository.
- Same notes for previous phase apply.

### 7. Deployment
- Use any deployment platform to publish your website (Make it real!!!!!).
- You are free to use any platform.
- Submit the link of your live website to BB.

### 8. Demo
- Before you start recording, plan your demo very well (imagine yourself in a conference in front of a large audience).
- Record a 5 to 7-minute long video showing the different parts of your project.
- The video should follow a narrative that highlights the core value of your system AND explain the technical part.
- Upload the video to YouTube and submit a link to blackboard.

### 9. Final Report
- Submit a report (.pdf) that contains the following:
  - **Technologies and Tools**: Specify clearly the technologies and tools used in the project (for instance: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJS, etc.).
  - **GUI Screen Shots**: Include screenshots of the main screens.
  - **Source Code**: Snapshot of the important parts of the source code (few pages) to describe the main scenario(s).
  - **Open source code reusability**: If you have integrated any existing code or used any framework, mention it here clearly.
  - **Learnings from the project**.
  - **Limitations of your work**.
  - **What would you do differently if you had more time**.
  - **Time-sheet**: A worksheet describing the implementation timeline and the tasks of each team member.

## Conclusion

Remember, challenges are opportunities, and your commitment to best practices in web design and development will not only define the success of your projects but also your personal and professional growth. So let's embark on this adventure together, pushing the boundaries of what's possible and turning our collective dreams into reality. Your journey begins now, and the possibilities are limitless!
